<1.7.4.95.15.54.38.me@H.GP.CS.CMU.EDU (<speaker>Michael Erdmann</speaker>).0>
Type:     cmu.cs.robotics
Topic:    TODAY ROOM CHANGE  Anita Flynn's Talk (Faculty Candidate): Smith 125.
Dates:    7Apr95
Time:     3:30  5:00
PostedBy: me on 7Apr95 at 15:54 from H.GP.CS.CMU.EDU (<speaker>Michael Erdmann</speaker>)
Abstract: 
<paragraph>Friends, 
the illusions of Carnival have forced us to move the RI Faculty Candidate
seminar to Smith Hall 125.  <sentence>See you there. </sentence>  A million thanks to Cleah and a
number of other folks for helping out with the sudden switch.  Best, Mike</paragraph>

       Robotics Seminar     FACULTY CANDIDATE    Robotics Seminar

<paragraph>Friday April 7, 3:305:00
Refreshments 3:15
 Smith Hall 125     (NOTE ROOM CHANGE)
                Piezoelectric Ultrasonic Micromotors</paragraph>

                          Anita M. Flynn
                           MIT AI Lab

    Utilizing the large piezoelectric coefficients and high dielectric
constants of ferroelectric thin films, it is possible to
microfabricate ultrasonic motors on silicon substrates.  This talk
will describe our efforts in this area.  By using ferroelectric thin
films of lead zirconate titanate (PZT), a twoorder of magnitude
improvement over bulk ceramic materials is obtained in breakdown
strength.  This characteristic, in combination with high dielectric
permittivities, leads to a threeorder of magnitude improvement over
electrostatic micromotors in terms of energy densities.

    We have fabricated resonant structures on one micron thick silicon
nitride membranes which are able to spin twomillimeter diameter
rotors which are placed down on top.  Statorrotor interaction is
achieved through frictional coupling and an inherent geardown creates
motors which run at low speeds with high torques.

    I will also discuss experiments with 8 mm diameter ultrasonic
motors fabricated from bulk ceramic PZT and an analysis of the contact
mechanics at the rotorstator interface where the overall efficiency
of the motor is critically determined.  Models of line contact,
Hertzian contact and linear spring contact for Coulomb and viscous
friction have been derived and simulations will be presented which
predict speedtorque curves, efficiencies and overall output power for
various conditions of operating voltage and normal force.

   Work in progress on a new laseretching technique for piezoelectric
ultrasonic micromotors offers promise for simplifying the fabrication
steps and developing more practical motors. We plan to incorporate
these actuators into small robots and create truly integrated
intelligent machines.  Presently, we are developing small palmsized
autonomous robots, using conventional electromagnetic motors, with
onboard computers and 18 sensors which can crawl through tubes, pick
up small objects and cooperate on tasks.  Later, ultrasonic motors
will be retrofit as they become available, enabling miniaturization.
I will show videotapes of these machines in a robotic ant colony and
as intestine crawlers for telepresence surgery.